The Boa snake robot is (as of 2022) a state-of-the art snake robot made as a research platform for obstacle aided
locomotion. Boa was designed and built as a part of my PhD work at the Department of Engineering Cybernetics (ITK) during the fall semester of 2021. The Boa snake robot is completely "home made" here at ITK as none of the design work was outsourced (pretty cool huh?). My supervisors, Damiano Varagnolo and Øyvind Stavdahl, as well as my partner-in-crime, Irja Gravdahl have been instrumental in the specification and design of the Boa snake robot.

The Boa snake robot was built from scratch, taking heavy inspiration from previous snake robots at ITK. Please take a look at the project work of [Veslum 2020] to get an overview of its full pedigree.

The reason for building the Boa snake robot was to actively engage in research tied to the concept of Obstacle Aided Locomotion (OAL). The previous iteration of snake robots built at ITK, called Mamba, was built by Liljebäck et.al. in the timespan from 2010-2013. Originally, my PhD work was supposed to be centered around the Mamba snake robots, but early preliminary research showed that the Mamba snake robot was not as suitable for OAL research as we originally thought. Issues regarding servos, sensors and the age (10 years) of the system, made it hard to perform any real research into OAL using the Mamba snake robot. Again, the project work of [Veslum 2020] further elaborates on the issues. The conclusion was that we needed a better and more purposefully designed robot in order to continue the research. 

The Boa snake robots differ from previous snake robots in 3 major ways:

1. **The Boa snake robot is planar:** While previous snake robots were designed to move in 3 dimensions, the boa is intentionally designed to only work in 2 dimensions. This means that the Boa cannot climb obstacles or lift its head of the ground. Being planar also limits which gaits the Boa can perform to produce motion. So why would we make the desicion to build Boa planar? Lifting parts of the robot off the ground requires a large amount of motor torque, which again requires a large amount of structural integrity. Issues such as weight an structural strength are much smaller issues when working only on a plane. As the robot is planar, the top side of the robot can be "uncovered", making it easier to access electronics, sensors and motors. The uncovered top-side also makes cooling the servos a breeze (pun intended), as overheating was a serious and fatal issue in the Mamba snake robot. While a planar snake robot cant perform gaits such as sidewinding, this doesnt matter too much, as the Boa is designed specifically for OAL in 2 dimesions. Some time in the future, we will naturally want to start researching OAL in 3 dimensions. In this case, some lucky student gets to build the next generation of snake robot :)
2. **The Boa snake robot is only designed to do one thing and do that thing well:** Previous snake robots were built to be "jack of all trades". They were modular and had a variety of differend modules that could be connected to perform an array of different tasks. Some of them, including the Mamba, could even swim and work underwater with some modifications. The old proverb "Jack of all trades, master of none" now becomes relevant. The robots could perform a wide array of tasks, but were pretty mediocre at all of them. This is why we made an active desicion to make a snake robot which sucks at most tasks, but which is really good at the one thing it was designed to do: OAL in 2 dimenstions.
3. **The Boa contains a Contact Force Estimation System (CFES):** The original consept of the CFES is attributed to Liljebäck et.al. and was originally included in the Mamba snake robot. The CFES in Mamba was engenius in design, but unfortunately inherently flawed, and did not work as intended. The Boa contains a system, similar in principle, but built on industiral grade off-the-shelf sensors. Here's a very brief explanation of what the CFES is: When performing OAL, it is interesting to know what external obstacles the robot is in contact with. We want to know their location (where they touch the robot) and the interraction force between the robot an the obstacle (How hard the robot is pushing against the obstacle). By measuring the constraint forces in each joint of the robot, as well as acceleration and joint angle, it is possible to estimate the contact force using Newtons law of motion.
TODO: Link to relevant research article

